---
id: daf3360d-d3ce-4f27-90ec-4bff0addb94f
name: Command Injection Filter Bypass with Backslash and Slash
type: procedure
verified: false
submitted: false
created_at: '2023-04-06T03:55:57.308819+00:00'
updated_at: '2023-04-06T03:55:57.321026+00:00'
tactics:
- '[[Execution|TA0002 - Execution]]'
techniques:
- '[[Command-Line Interface|T1059 - Command-Line Interface]]'
sub_techniques:
- '[[Windows Command Shell|T1059.003 - Windows Command Shell]]'
tags:
- '[[Bypass Blacklisted words]]'
- '[[Bypass with backslash and slash]]'
- '[[Command Injection]]'
- '[[Filter Bypasses]]'
---

# Command Injection Filter Bypass with Backslash and Slash

## Summary

Command injection is a technique used to execute arbitrary commands on a target system. This technique is commonly used by attackers to gain access to sensitive information or to take control of a compromised system. In this specific scenario, the attacker is trying to bypass a filter that blocks c

## Description

# Description

Command injection is a technique used to execute arbitrary commands on a target system. This technique is commonly used by attackers to gain access to sensitive information or to take control of a compromised system. In this specific scenario, the attacker is trying to bypass a filter that blocks certain words. The attacker is using a combination of backslashes and slashes to bypass the filter and execute the command. This technique can be used in various scenarios where filters are in place to prevent command injection attacks. The attacker can use this technique to evade detection and successfully execute the command.

 

## Requirements

1. Access to a system with a filter that blocks certain words

 

## Defense

1. Implement input validation and sanitization to prevent command injection attacks

1. Use a web application firewall (WAF) to block known command injection attacks

1. Implement least privilege access control to limit the capabilities of attackers who manage to execute commands on the system

 

## Objectives

1. Execute arbitrary commands on the target system

1. Bypass the filter and evade detection

 

# Instructions

1. Copy and paste the command into the command prompt or terminal to execute it.

 



**Code**: [[w\ho\am\i
/\b\i\n/////s\h]]



> The 'w' command is used to display information about the user who is currently logged in. The '\\' is used to escape the first backslash and the 'n' character is used to create a new line. The '/bin//////' is the command that the attacker is trying to execute. The 's' and 'h' characters at the end of the command are used to suppress any error messages that may be generated by the command.

## MITRE ATT&CK Mapping

### Tactics

- [[Execution|TA0002 - Execution]]

### Techniques

- [[Command-Line Interface|T1059 - Command-Line Interface]]

### Sub-Techniques

- [[Windows Command Shell|T1059.003 - Windows Command Shell]]

## Tags

- [[Bypass Blacklisted words]]
- [[Bypass with backslash and slash]]
- [[Command Injection]]
- [[Filter Bypasses]]


